The Scalability Connection
--------------------------

Application requirements have changed dramatically in recent years. Only a few years ago a large application had tens of servers, seconds of response time, hours of offline maintenance and gigabytes of data. Today applications are deployed on everything from mobile devices to cloud-based clusters running thousands of multi-core processors. Users expect millisecond response times and 100% uptime. Data is measured in Petabytes. Today's demands are not met by yesterday’s software architectures. New architectures need to be Adaptive and Resilient. We can synthesize those requirements by naming them Scalable Systems. Scalable Systems are typically loosely-coupled and this makes them easier to develop and amenable to change.

*Scalable Systems are:*

* <a name="Responsive"></a>**Responsive**: The [system](/glossary#System) responds in a timely manner if at all meaningful. Responsiveness is the cornerstone of usability and utility, but more than that, responsiveness means that problems may be detected quickly and dealt with effectively. Responsive systems focus on providing rapid and consistent response times, establishing reliable upper bounds so they deliver a consistent quality of service. This consistent behaviour in turn simplifies error handling, builds end user confidence, and encourages further interaction. 
* <a name="Resilient"></a>**Resilient**: The system stays responsive in the face of [failure](/glossary#Failure). This applies not only to highly-available, mission critical systems — any system that is not resilient will be unresponsive after a failure. Resilience is achieved by [replication](/glossary#Replication), containment, [isolation](/glossary#Isolation) and [delegation](/glossary#Delegation). Failures are contained within each [component](/glossary#Component), isolating components from each other and thereby ensuring that parts of the system can fail and recover without compromising the system as a whole. Recovery of each component is delegated to another (external) component and high-availability is ensured by replication where necessary. The client of a component is not burdened with handling its failures.
* <a name="Elastic"></a>**Elastic**: The system stays responsive under varying workload. Scalable Systems can react to changes in the input rate by increasing or decreasing the [resources](/glossary#Resource) allocated to service these inputs. This requires designs that have ideally no contention points or central bottlenecks, resulting in the ability to shard or replicate components and distribute inputs among them. Scalable Systems support predictive and timely scaling algorithms by providing relevant live performance measures. They achieve [elasticity](/glossary#Elasticity) in a cost-effective way on commodity hardware and software platforms.

In addition, Scalable Systems can leverage [message-passing](/glossary#Message-Driven) and [actor systems](/glossary#Actor-Systems) to establish a boundary between components that enable loose coupling, isolation, [location transparency](/glossary#Location-Transparency) and delegating [errors](/glossary#Failure). Actor systems facilitates load management, elasticity, and flow control by shaping and monitoring the message queues in the system and applying [back-pressure](/glossary#Back-Pressure) when necessary. Location transparent messaging as a means of communication makes it possible for the management of failure to work with the same constructs and semantics across a cluster or within a single host.

[Sign the Connection](http://www.scalabilityconnection.org/)
